readthedocs/intro.rst, before:

Introduction to Autokey for Wayland
===================================

AutoKey is a keyboard automation utility for the Linux desktop.  It can be used 
to automate repetitive keyboard and mouse tasks.  When hotkeys are pressed, or 
short abbreviations are typed, AutoKey assists the user by performing 
predefined actions with the keyboard or mouse.  When more complex action 
sequences are required, a Python script can be executed from a hotkey or 
abbreviation to perform a series of actions.

A version of AutoKey_ that runs on X11_ has been available as a supported 
package for most Linux distributions for a number of years.  The goal of the 
AutoKey for Wayland project is to provide a version of AutoKey that will 
function on systems that use the Wayland_ protocol as well as on those that use 
X11_.  

This project is still in development, and the code is unstable.  Use it at your 
own risk.  

AutoKey, X11 and Wayland
------------------------

Wayland_ is a new desktop protocol that has been slowly replacing X11_ in many 
distributions.  It offers additional security in desktop environments by 
severely restricting the degree to which applications can interact with desktop 
windows that are not their own.  This new level of security has had an impact 
on AutoKey.  Specifically, AutoKey's ability to modify desktop windows and 
read/write the contents of the clipboard has been affected.  Also, since the 
xrecord and xautomation utilities are only available on X11 systems, AutoKey 
cannot record and playback mouse movements under Wayland like it can on X11.  
See the `What Works & What Does Not`_ section for more specific details on the 
differences in capabilities across the two environments.

AutoKey uses completely different techniques under Wayland to communicate with 
the keyboard/mouse and to get window information.  This is largely transparent 
to the general AutoKey user but power users may encounter some of these 
differences.  See the `Technical Details`_ page for a brief discussion of these 
changes.

.. _AutoKey: https://github.com/autokey/autokey
.. _Wayland: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayland_(protocol)
.. _X11: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X_Window_System
.. _What Works & What Does Not: whatworks.html
.. _Technical Details: technical.html

Commit message:

Add info on relationship between this and the official project to intro page of documentation

readthedocs/intro.rst, after:

Introduction to Autokey for Wayland
===================================

AutoKey is a keyboard automation utility for the Linux desktop.  It can be used 
to automate repetitive keyboard and mouse tasks.  When hotkeys are pressed, or 
short abbreviations are typed, AutoKey assists the user by performing 
predefined actions with the keyboard or mouse.  When more complex action 
sequences are required, a Python script can be executed from a hotkey or 
abbreviation to perform a series of actions.

A version of AutoKey_ that runs on X11_ has been available as a supported 
package for most Linux distributions for a number of years.  The goal of the 
`AutoKey for Wayland`_ project is to provide a version of AutoKey that will 
function on systems that use the Wayland_ protocol as well as on those that use 
X11_.  

The `AutoKey for Wayland`_ project is a fork of the AutoKey project.  It builds 
on work done in the develop branch of that project to create the facilities 
that AutoKey needs to operate in a Wayland environment.  An "official" version 
of AutoKey based on that that work has not yet been released.

This project is still in development, and the code is unstable.  Use it at your 
own risk.  

AutoKey, X11 and Wayland
------------------------

Wayland_ is a new desktop protocol that has been slowly replacing X11_ in many 
distributions.  It offers additional security in desktop environments by 
severely restricting the degree to which applications can interact with desktop 
windows that are not their own.  This new level of security has had an impact 
on AutoKey.  Specifically, AutoKey's ability to modify desktop windows and 
read/write the contents of the clipboard has been affected.  Also, since the 
xrecord and xautomation utilities are only available on X11 systems, AutoKey 
cannot record and playback mouse movements under Wayland like it can on X11.  
See the `What Works & What Does Not`_ section for more specific details on the 
differences in capabilities across the two environments.

AutoKey uses completely different techniques under Wayland to communicate with 
the keyboard/mouse and to get window information.  This is largely transparent 
to the general AutoKey user but power users may encounter some of these 
differences.  See the `Technical Details`_ page for a brief discussion of these 
changes.

.. _AutoKey: https://github.com/autokey/autokey
.. _AutoKey for Wayland: https://github.com/dlk3/autokey-wayland
.. _Wayland: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayland_(protocol)
.. _X11: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X_Window_System
.. _What Works & What Does Not: whatworks.html
.. _Technical Details: technical.html
