readthedocs/technical.rst, before:

Additional Technical Detail on Wayland, X11, and AutoKey
========================================================

One of the major design points for the Wayland_ desktop protocol is providing
a more secure platform for applications running on a shared desktop.
It provides additional security over what had previously been available in
the X Window environment.  To create a more secure environment, Wayland
imposes new restrictions on how applications can interact through
the desktop.

The Wayland_ protocol's restrictions prevent AutoKey from interacting with the 
keyboard, mouse, clipboard, and desktop windows as freely as it did under X11. 
These restrictions also make some of the utilities AutoKey leveraged under X11 
unavailable, like xrecord and xautomation.  In order to provide some level of 
functionality, the AutoKey developers had to come up with alternative means of 
integrating with the Wayland environment.

Keyboard and Mouse Integration
------------------------------

For keyboard and mouse integration, AutoKey for Wayland makes use of the 
"evdev_" event interface in the Linux kernel.  AutoKey interacts with "evdev" 
through the "/dev/uinput" device.  By default, access to the "/dev/uinput" 
device is restricted to the root user.  The AutoKey user must, therefore, be 
granted read/write access to the "/dev/uinput" device.  During AutoKey 
installation, a new UDEV_ rule is installed, which changes the permissions for 
the /dev/uinput device to allow access for the members of the "input" user 
group.  The AutoKey user is added to that group.

Manipulating Desktop Windows
----------------------------

The Wayland protocol does not allow applications to interact with desktop 
windows as X11 did.  There are no Wayland facilities that allow an application 
to move, resize, close, or otherwise interact with a window.  Some DTE (desktop 
environment) software, like GNOME or KDE, provides an API that will return 
basic information about windows on the desktop.  GNOME, for example, makes this 
information available to its desktop extensions.  AutoKey for Wayland, 
therefore, installs an AutoKey-specific GNOME Shell extension and uses its 
capabilities to implement a limited windows API.  A similar solution may be 
available for KDE, so AutoKey may add support for KDE in the future.

Clipboard Integration
---------------------

The Wayland protocol imposes new restrictions on how applications interact with 
the clipboard.  Generally speaking, applications that run in the background, 
like AutoKey does most of the time, are prohibited from accessing the 
clipboard. Fortunately the developers of a utility called wl-clipboard_ have 
found a way around this restriction.  You can visit their site it you want the 
details, suffice it to say that AutoKey now uses wl-clipboard to integrate with 
the clipboard on Wayland systems.

.. _Wayland: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayland_(protocol)
.. _evdev: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evdev
.. _UDEV: https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/udev.7.html
.. _wl-clipboard: https://github.com/bugaevc/wl-clipboard

Commit message:

Implement the missing window API methods via the GNOME Shell extension

readthedocs/technical.rst, after:

Additional Technical Detail on Wayland, X11, and AutoKey
========================================================

One of the major design points for the Wayland_ desktop protocol is providing
a more secure platform for applications running on a shared desktop.
It provides additional security over what had previously been available in
the X Window environment.  To create a more secure environment, Wayland
imposes new restrictions on how applications can interact through
the desktop.

The Wayland_ protocol's restrictions prevent AutoKey from interacting with the 
keyboard, mouse, clipboard, and desktop windows as freely as it did under X11. 
These restrictions also make some of the utilities AutoKey leveraged under X11 
unavailable, like xrecord and xautomation.  In order to provide some level of 
functionality, the AutoKey developers had to come up with alternative means of 
integrating with the Wayland environment.

Keyboard and Mouse Integration
------------------------------

For keyboard and mouse integration, AutoKey for Wayland makes use of the 
"evdev_" event interface in the Linux kernel.  AutoKey interacts with "evdev" 
through the "/dev/uinput" device.  By default, access to the "/dev/uinput" 
device is restricted to the root user.  The AutoKey user must, therefore, be 
granted read/write access to the "/dev/uinput" device.  During AutoKey 
installation, a new UDEV_ rule is installed, which changes the permissions for 
the /dev/uinput device to allow access for the members of the "input" user 
group.  The AutoKey user is added to that group.

Manipulating Desktop Windows
----------------------------

The Wayland protocol does not provide an interface for manipulating windows on 
the desktop like X11 did. Those actions must now be accomplished through 
integration with the compositor components in desktop software like Gnome and 
KDE. GNOME uses the mutter compositor.  It provides an API for GNOME Shell 
extensions that we used to reimplement almost all of the window control 
functions in AutoKey. A custom AutoKey GNOME Shell extension is now installed 
alongside AutoKey to enable this integration. Unfortunately two of the window 
API methods implemented in AutoKey are still locked out by Wayland security.  
For details on those methods, and the rest, see the `window API`_ section of 
the documentation.

Clipboard Integration
---------------------

The Wayland protocol imposes new restrictions on how applications interact with 
the clipboard.  Generally speaking, applications that run in the background, 
like AutoKey does most of the time, are prohibited from accessing the 
clipboard. Fortunately the developers of a utility called wl-clipboard_ have 
found a way around this restriction.  You can visit their site it you want the 
details, suffice it to say that AutoKey now uses wl-clipboard to integrate with 
the clipboard on Wayland systems.  As a result, all of clipboard functionality
we're used to now works on Wayland just as it does on X11.

.. _Wayland: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayland_(protocol)
.. _evdev: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evdev
.. _UDEV: https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/udev.7.html
.. _window API: api/windowgnome.html
.. _wl-clipboard: https://github.com/bugaevc/wl-clipboard
